edgelessdb/getting-started/quickstart-azure.md, before:

# Quickstart: Microsoft Azure
This guide will show you how to set up EdgelessDB using the Microsoft Azure Marketplace.

## Get the machine
Visit the Azure Marketplace and get [EdgelessDB](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/edgelesssystems.edb?tab=Overview).

![EdgelessDB on Azure Marketplace](_media/azure/azure_get.png)

Then configure the virtual machine in the creation wizard.

!> Important: For EdgelessDB to work properly on Microsoft Azure, you must choose a VM size that has an Intel® SGX® CPU. There are currently two VM sizes that we recommend: The new [DCsv3 series](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/dcv3-series) powered by Intel® Xeon® (Ice Lake), and the older [DCsv2 series](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/dcv2-series).

Create the resource group for your machine in [one of the regions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/services/?products=virtual-machines) where the DCsv3/DCsv2 series is available.

The value for the `Virtual machine name` can be freely selected.
The value for the `Username` **must** be set to _edb_.
Finally, press the blue `Review + Create` button and then the `Create` button to finish the setup process.

![Create a virtual machine](_media/azure/azure_wizard.png)

## Get the IP
After you have created the machine, get the public IP address of the database you just created, so you can interact with it.
Naviagte to the resource group your virtual machine was created in and select the virtual machine.
The public IP address is displayed on the right hand side in the `Essentials` section.

Alternatively, you can use the [azure-cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to get the public IP address:
```bash
 az vm show -d -g <resource-group> -n <vm-name> --query publicIps -o tsv
```

## Generate certificates and create a manifest
You will now create a manifest that defines a root user. This user is authenticated by an X.509 certificate.

Generate a certificate authority (CA) and a corresponding user certificate:
```bash
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa -nodes -days 3650 -subj '/CN=My CA' -keyout ca-key.pem -out ca-cert.pem
openssl req -newkey rsa -nodes -subj '/CN=rootuser' -keyout key.pem -out csr.pem
openssl x509 -req -days 3650 -CA ca-cert.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -in csr.pem -out cert.pem
```

Escape the line breaks of the CA certificate:
```bash
awk 1 ORS='\\n' ca-cert.pem
```

Create a file `manifest.json` with the following contents:
```json
{
    "sql": [
        "CREATE USER root REQUIRE ISSUER '/CN=My CA' SUBJECT '/CN=rootuser'",
        "GRANT ALL ON *.* TO root WITH GRANT OPTION"
    ],
    "ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n"
}
```

`sql` is a list of SQL statements that define the initial state of the database. The two statements above create a root user that is authenticated by the user certificate you just generated.

Replace the value of `ca` with the escaped content of `ca-cert.pem`.

## Verify your EdgelessDB instance
Before you can trust your EdgelessDB instance, you first need to verify its confidentiality. You can use the [Edgeless Remote Attestation (era)](https://github.com/edgelesssys/era) tool for this. If you're just getting started, you may also skip this part.

Once you've installed `era`, you can get the attested root certificate of your EdgelessDB instance as follows:
```bash
wget https://github.com/edgelesssys/edgelessdb/releases/latest/download/edgelessdb-sgx.json
era -c edgelessdb-sgx.json -h <your-azure-ip>:8080 -output-root edb.pem
```

Here, `edgelessdb-sgx.json` contains the expected properties of your EdgelessDB instance.

## Set the manifest
You're now ready to send the manifest over a secure TLS connection based on the attested root certificate of your EdgelessDB instance:
```bash
curl --cacert edb.pem --data-binary @manifest.json --resolve edb:8080:<your-azure-ip> https://edb:8080/manifest
```

In case you skipped the verification step above, just replace `--cacert edb.pem` with `-k` in the above command.

## Use EdgelessDB
Now you can use EdgelessDB like any other SQL database:
```bash
mysql -h<your-azure-ip> -uroot --ssl-ca edb.pem --ssl-cert cert.pem --ssl-key key.pem
```

For an example of EdgelessDB's confidential-computing features, see the [demo of a secure multi-party data processing app](https://github.com/edgelesssys/edgelessdb/tree/main/demo).

Commit message:

edb: add note on mysql command in case of skipped verification

edgelessdb/getting-started/quickstart-azure.md, after:

# Quickstart: Microsoft Azure
This guide will show you how to set up EdgelessDB using the Microsoft Azure Marketplace.

## Get the machine
Visit the Azure Marketplace and get [EdgelessDB](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/edgelesssystems.edb?tab=Overview).

![EdgelessDB on Azure Marketplace](_media/azure/azure_get.png)

Then configure the virtual machine in the creation wizard.

!> Important: For EdgelessDB to work properly on Microsoft Azure, you must choose a VM size that has an Intel® SGX® CPU. There are currently two VM sizes that we recommend: The new [DCsv3 series](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/dcv3-series) powered by Intel® Xeon® (Ice Lake), and the older [DCsv2 series](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/dcv2-series).

Create the resource group for your machine in [one of the regions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/services/?products=virtual-machines) where the DCsv3/DCsv2 series is available.

The value for the `Virtual machine name` can be freely selected.
The value for the `Username` **must** be set to _edb_.
Finally, press the blue `Review + Create` button and then the `Create` button to finish the setup process.

![Create a virtual machine](_media/azure/azure_wizard.png)

## Get the IP
After you have created the machine, get the public IP address of the database you just created, so you can interact with it.
Naviagte to the resource group your virtual machine was created in and select the virtual machine.
The public IP address is displayed on the right hand side in the `Essentials` section.

Alternatively, you can use the [azure-cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to get the public IP address:
```bash
 az vm show -d -g <resource-group> -n <vm-name> --query publicIps -o tsv
```

## Generate certificates and create a manifest
You will now create a manifest that defines a root user. This user is authenticated by an X.509 certificate.

Generate a certificate authority (CA) and a corresponding user certificate:
```bash
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa -nodes -days 3650 -subj '/CN=My CA' -keyout ca-key.pem -out ca-cert.pem
openssl req -newkey rsa -nodes -subj '/CN=rootuser' -keyout key.pem -out csr.pem
openssl x509 -req -days 3650 -CA ca-cert.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -in csr.pem -out cert.pem
```

Escape the line breaks of the CA certificate:
```bash
awk 1 ORS='\\n' ca-cert.pem
```

Create a file `manifest.json` with the following contents:
```json
{
    "sql": [
        "CREATE USER root REQUIRE ISSUER '/CN=My CA' SUBJECT '/CN=rootuser'",
        "GRANT ALL ON *.* TO root WITH GRANT OPTION"
    ],
    "ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n"
}
```

`sql` is a list of SQL statements that define the initial state of the database. The two statements above create a root user that is authenticated by the user certificate you just generated.

Replace the value of `ca` with the escaped content of `ca-cert.pem`.

## Verify your EdgelessDB instance
Before you can trust your EdgelessDB instance, you first need to verify its confidentiality. You can use the [Edgeless Remote Attestation (era)](https://github.com/edgelesssys/era) tool for this. If you're just getting started, you may also skip this part.

Once you've installed `era`, you can get the attested root certificate of your EdgelessDB instance as follows:
```bash
wget https://github.com/edgelesssys/edgelessdb/releases/latest/download/edgelessdb-sgx.json
era -c edgelessdb-sgx.json -h <your-azure-ip>:8080 -output-root edb.pem
```

Here, `edgelessdb-sgx.json` contains the expected properties of your EdgelessDB instance.

## Set the manifest
You're now ready to send the manifest over a secure TLS connection based on the attested root certificate of your EdgelessDB instance:
```bash
curl --cacert edb.pem --data-binary @manifest.json --resolve edb:8080:<your-azure-ip> https://edb:8080/manifest
```

In case you skipped the verification step above, just replace `--cacert edb.pem` with `-k` in the above command.

## Use EdgelessDB
Now you can use EdgelessDB like any other SQL database:
```bash
mysql -h<your-azure-ip> -uroot --ssl-ca edb.pem --ssl-cert cert.pem --ssl-key key.pem
```

In case you skipped the verification step above, omit `--ssl-ca edb.pem` in the above command.

For an example of EdgelessDB's confidential-computing features, see the [demo of a secure multi-party data processing app](https://github.com/edgelesssys/edgelessdb/tree/main/demo).
